[theme song playing]
♪ Party ♪
-♪ Who's the king? ♪
-♪ King Julien! ♪
♪ Get down for the get down ♪
-♪ Everybody party with King who? ♪
-♪ King Julien! ♪
-♪ King who? ♪
♪ Tonight will be forever ♪
♪ Let's do King Julien style ♪
♪ Woof! ♪
♪ Whoa, oh, whoa, oh ♪
♪ Y'all tell me who's the king ♪
♪ All hail King Julien! ♪
[Maurice]
Let the royal naming ceremony begin!
I, King Julien XIII,
-hereby name you Dribble Peesworthy.
-[cooing]
-I name you Fontainebleau McGuinness.
-Ah!
I name you Jazz-man Saint Ives.
Tiny Toes. Breadcheese Crackers.
Juniper Atticus.
Tinkle Ear Ringer.
-Scout Ryder.
-[cooing]
Haverford Johnson Sparklenose Junior.
Arlo Glowstick.
Look at all these happy fathers and sons,
-with their perfectly matching tails.
-[cooing]
Oh, it's... it's...
[crying] it's so beautiful.
[whines]
Maurice, I want a baby.
You want a what?
I want a miniature version of me
with matching tail rings to love
and hold and name.
[sighing]
Move it, the baby isn't gonna make itself.
Go get me one!
[stammers] King Julien,
you do know where babies come from, right?
Of course I do, Maurice.
Every full moon,
the male lemur goes to the baby patch
to find where the sky gods
have hidden the new babies.
Baby?
Once the daddy lemur finds a baby
with a tail that exactly matches
his own tail,
the birthing process is complete.
Hello? It's King Julien, your new daddy.
[yells] Baby? Come on! Chop-chop!
It's cold out here!
You think that's where babies come from?
-[laughs]
-Of course it is.
Maybe this is a conversation
you should have had with your parents
before they were eaten, Maurice.
Sadly, no matter how many trips I've made
to the baby patch, I never find my baby!
This tail is one of a kind.
If only I had a son
with a tail as identical
and amazing as this tail,
I would be complete.
[sighs] What could it hurt?
[whispering] Baby? You there?
If you can't walk or cry out,
just hurl yourself
repeatedly against a tree
so I can hear you.
Baby?
Daddy's coming!
[exclaiming in delight]
-Gotcha!
-[strains]
-Horst?
-Can't a lemur enjoy
a beverage in the bushes
without being bothered?
Ugh! And, I spilled it.
If this is how you want to roll,
sky gods, fine!
I don't need some little me to cuddle,
and love--
[rustling]
Horst,
just drink your beverage in the open.
No one cares! Nobo--
[rustling]
Horst?
[whimpering]
[exclaims] A tail!
And look at the rings!
Can this really be happening?
Is this my...
Mort?
Hi.
How could I have never noticed
your tail before?
I've been keeping it nice,
hoping that you would.
Mort, you're my baby?
Abba! Abba!
Daddy!
[exclaims]
[yells] I'm so happy!
[exulting]
[pacifier sucking]
Are you having a laugh?
Clover!
I wouldn't joke
about something so important.
Mort is my son. I found him in the jungle
under the full moon, so it's legal.
You do know that Mort
is actually older than you are, right?
It's called "unconditional love", Maurice.
Besides, the tails do not lie.
Oh, and his name isn't Mort anymore,
-it's Prince Falcon.
-[Mort giggles]
[both] Prince Falcon?!
Oh, yay, I'm a bird of prey!
[burps]
Ooh, good out, buddy.
[Mort imitating motor sounds]
I want to do something, Papa,
now, Papa, now.
One second, Prince Falcon,
Daddy's reading a book on parenting.
Hooray! [blowing raspberries]
Burst of unexplainable energy!
[groans]
Mort, no! Don't hit Maurice!
Clover!
We do not say [whispers] "no"
to young Falcon.
[whispers] "No" is a bad word.
I don't... [grunts]
Or [whispers] "don't".
Young Falcon should never
be made a prisoner
of your harsh negatives, Maurice.
[stomach rumbling]
Papa, I'm hungry!
[exclaiming excitedly]
Feeding time.
Mm.
Okay. Yep, I got this.
[chewing loudly]
[exclaiming excitedly]
Open wide, Prince Falcon,
here comes the food train.
Woo-woo! Woo-woo!
[retching]
Ah! Ah!
[spits]
That's your appetizer. [spits]
-[groaning]
-[Julien spitting]
-For dessert! [spits]
-Oh!
[Julien] Maurice! Clover!
Come quick! Hurry!
What's wrong, Your Majesty?
Are the foosa attacking?
No, something very exciting
is about to happen!
Prince Falcon,
he's going to make his first poopy!
-Mort! No! Take it outside!
-Bad, Mort! Bad!
Stop that! Prince Falcon
must be free to go wherever he likes,
-especially his first time.
-[farting]
Papa! Look! What did I do?
New things scare me.
I'm so proud!
That little guy is King Julien's son?
Abner, let's keep tabs
on that little fella'.
I just bet there's a way
to destroy King Julien in all this.
[Mort] Blah! Blah! Blah!
Please, Falcon, it's time for calm place.
Daddy is so tired.
But, can I sleep with the light on?
Of course, little Falcon.
[kisses]
[groaning]
[Mort crying]
Aww, it's okay, Falcon. Daddy's here.
I want Mommy!
Mm-hm... Oh!
Oh...
[crying] Okay, somebody, be the mommy.
I don't care which,
I just need him to go to sleep!
What's wrong, little guy? Got gas?
[grunts]
You're all hard and bony.
It's called being physically fit!
Now lights out, soldier!
Go to sleep! That's an order!
[cries louder]
Clover, what are you doing?
Maurice, tap in!
[scratches head]
Is the mean mommy gone?
She's gone. Now go to sleep.
I can't. I'm shaking.
It's okay, little buddy, I got you.
♪ Ave Maria ♪
♪ Mater de la la boom ♪
♪ Ora brazala salad and pasta ♪
♪ Ora da do do bananas and bees ♪
♪ Oh! Ah! ♪
♪ Coconut, pineapple
And pineapple soup ♪
Wow, Maurice, that was... really touching.
You... You're an excellent mommy.
Nice to be appreciated.
Oh, yay!
[Mort cooing]
That your little one?
Yes. Yes, it is.
Oh, well,
she must be awfully cute on the inside.
Eh, it's a "he",
and I assure you his insides are fabulous.
Oh, I didn't mean no offense.
It's hard to be the whole package
like my Todd, handsome, smart, talented.
Why, my Todd has won
the Junior Gents Talent and Beauty
Pageant Competition
eight years in a row.
He won the first two
when he was still inside my tum-tum.
[laughs]
Okay, firstly, that's just gross.
Why was he in your tum-tum? Hello.
The baby patch.
And secondly, he doesn't seem so special.
Ahem. Todd! Juggle, baby!
Bigger smile.
Always flash 'em those pearly jacksons.
Perfect teeth.
Dentist said it was a miracle
on account he was born with no lower jaw.
Prince Falcon!
Ta-da!
Show the nice lady here
some of your talented-ness.
[gasps]
Well, if the world didn't have losers,
we wouldn't know who the winners are.
Bless his heart.
Come to Mama, baby.
Todd!
That Todd's mom is so annoying.
We gotta show her how great you are.
Hmm...
[exclaiming excitedly]
Perfect!
Prince Falcon, go get yourself cleaned up.
We've got a Junior Gents Talent
and Beauty Pageant Competition
for you to win!
Hooray!
La-la-la-la-la-la!
♪ I'm gonna be a Junior Gent ♪
That little mousy lemur
ain't King Julien's son.
He been paintin' his tail!
That boy's a regular brain-scientist!
Get up close to King Julien
like a tick on the back of his neck,
and then, bang! Take 'im out!
♪ I am King Julien's son ♪
♪ And I'm gonna be the best
Junior Gent ever ♪
♪ To make my papa so proud of... ♪
Mort, you sure is a smart one.
Yeah, buddy!
Whatever scheme you been a-schemin',
we want in!
Scheme? You mean, to win
the Junior Gents Talent
and Beauty Pageant Competition?
Right. We can work with that.
Good work, super brain.
Leave the rest to us!
Okey-dokey!
Welcome everybody
to "How to Be A Happy Mommy"!
Dorothy and I will help
you be the most loving mommy--
Sorry. Tail in the face.
My bad. Sorry.
Can we help you, Clover?
Well, I, um... you see,
the thing is, uh, see,
[clears throat] maybe I should just go.
Sweety, you are
in the circle of trust here.
You're safe as long
as you don't break the circle.
Breakin' the circle gets me
aggressive, man.
I got an idea.
Clover, why don't you
come on up here and help us?
Uh!
Goo goo, gaa gaa.
I don't want it! I don't want it!
[growling]
Well, too bad!
Oh, golly!
Ever seen a starving lemur
left out in the sun?
Ribs showing!
Tongue all bloated from lack of salt!
Have you seen that?
Have you seen that, baby Ted?
[group gasping]
What? It's called tough love
for a reason, people!
[all shriek]
Okay, let's start with picking up
and holding the baby.
-Easy-peasy!
-Clover!
-[egg breaks]
-[nervous chuckle]
Um...
Uh, Clover?
Honey, maybe that's enough
mothering for today.
We're done? Really? How'd I do?
[hesitant voice] Good.
I have no maternal instincts
whatsoever, do I?
Well, no.
Oh. But you will!
I believe everyone should get
a second chance.
I gotta dash off to host
the Junior Gents Pageant.
Your mission is to take care of this egg,
no matter what.
Can you do it?
I guess you are kinda cute.
For an egg and all. Momma's got you!
♪ Those dimples
And those apple cheeks ♪
♪ That smile that makes
Your knees go weak ♪
♪ The most beautiful boy in the world! ♪
Welcome to the sixth annual
Junior Gents Talent
and Beauty Pageant Competition!
[exclaiming excitedly]
We are so gonna win this!
Falcon, I don't want you
to think of this as a competition.
Think of it as a direct reflection
on my own self-esteem.
Now, go out there and have fun, buddy!
I'm just so tickled little Falcon's
competing this year.
Bless his heart!
'Course my Todd's already won
the Little Kumquat Competition,
the Prickly Pineapple Fashion Walk Off
and the Young Scholars of Madagascar
Beauty Contest.
All just this week.
He might be tired enough
for your boy to almost win.
Actually, Tammy,
there's been a slight change of plans.
Todd's going down! Boo-yah!
Oh, you don't want to rile Todd up.
You're liable to awaken the beast.
Todd! Show 'em your war face, honey.
[roars]
[screams]
Gives me the shivers every time.
[shuddering]
May the best child win!
Which is my Falcon, of course!
-Todd!
-Falcon!
-Todd! Todd!
-Falcon! Falcon!
-Falcon! Falcon! Falcon!
-Todd! Todd! Todd!
Everything in place, Becca?
Yep. Soon as Mort wins,
we'll drop that big ol' rock
on King Julien
during the crowning ceremony.
It'll be a blow for freedom
from the tyranny of--
Aww, wook at you,
my little eggy-weggy-weggy!
You're patrolling with Mommy-wommy today.
Please welcome our first Junior Gent
for the opening strut-down!
[rock music playing]
Yeah! So hot!
You like that?
I know you do.
Here's a pose.
-Yeah!
-Look away! Get off the stage!
Put some clothes on!
Hate it.
[peppy music playing]
Vogue.
Spirit fingers. Naughty Sailor.
Jazz hands. October Surprise.
-All right!
-[applause]
Now that's what I'm talking about!
-He stuck that one!
-We're doing this!
Genius. Genius!
[giggles]
Snap! Todd's got the goods!
Gotta catch up in the talent competition.
♪ I'm a dandy boy ♪
♪ In a big top hat
And when you give me hugs ♪
♪ My heart goes pitter-pat ♪
♪ 'Cause I desperately want love! ♪
-[applause]
-[cheering]
You look tense. Are you tense?
You look thirsty.
Maurice, go milk a gecko or something.
The Prince is dehydrated.
No pressure, but...
Todd is stomping
your booty out there, Falcon.
You better step up your game, man.
You're making me look bad.
How can I compete?
Todd is the total package.
You're my son,
which makes you the total-er package!
Now get out there
and rock this pageant for Papa Bear!
[yawns]
You're losing the crowd. Here!
[all gasping]
Own that stage, little superstar!
[all screaming]
Wait, wait, I'm not finished.
That's it?
I had to milk eleven geckos
just to get that much.
You do know how small they are, right?
And that technically
geckos don't produce milk!
Papa, I don't want to compete anymore.
Couldn't we just go home?
Maybe Mort-- Prince Falcon is right.
Who cares if Todd wins?
Who cares? I cares!
Can't you see the determination
in Falcon's face?
My son is not a quitter.
Actually, I kinda just said--
If you want to quit,
Falcon, that's your decision.
I'm still going to love you
because you're my son
and because I think it's a parent law
or something.
Regardless, it's your decision.
I want to make you proud, Papa.
Yes! See that, Maurice?
Fruit of my loins right there
and this fruit ain't no loser!
Hey. Oh, don't you worry now.
No matter what, give the world a smile
and it'll smile right back at you.
Really? That's all you got?
I feel worse!
[crying]
Prince Falcon is sad.
And for some reason, I feel sad, too.
Is this what being a parent truly is?
Or maybe I just ate something weird.
Welcome back,
everybody to our final round,
where contestants
will be asked to answer--
[Becca] Actually,
that won't be necessary, Your Honor.
Them other three judges
asked me and Abner
to finish up for 'em.
They was, uh, indisposed.
Can't sip drink.
So frustrating!
Ooh, Becca and Abner are delivering
the envelope.
That's a good sign. They love me.
No, they don't.
They've tried to kill you,
like, a bunch of times.
What? They have?
[Abner]  Leave the rest to us.
Oh, no!
And the winner is...
Pint Flaken?
Written in brown crayon.
That's dirt, mostly.
Supposed to read Prince Falcon.
Prince Falcon's the winner!
-What?
Todd!
Falcon! We did it! We won!
Oh, no. King Julien could be in danger!
What have I done?
Abner and Becca are involved in this?
How did I miss that?
It's obviously some kind of trap.
That's wight.
Something is weally wong here.
Well, in that case, I guess,
put your paws together
for your Junior Gent Grand Supreme
Prince Falcon!
[cheering]
Papa, maybe you shouldn't be up here.
Nonsense!
This is the first time
I've ever felt proud
about someone who's not me.
But, Papa, I have something to tell you.
It's very important!
Save it for after you get
that big trophy, buddy.
Here's our chance, Abner.
Oh, no!
You let loose with that rock!
I'll get us a little back-up with Clover!
Fweeze! I mean freeze!
You're busted.
Oh, heck, yeah, I figured as much.
But, I guess once again,
it is deciding time.
-How so?
-Lookie over yonder!
Say bye-bye to your egg, Clover!
Tick-tock. Decidin' time.
♪ He's the most beautiful boy ♪
♪ In the world! ♪
I don't have to decide. I can do both!
[grunts] Ooh, dang!
Mama's coming, eggy-weggy!
[screeching]
[sighs]
[applause]
Here ya go, Falcon. Your trophy!
Come give Papa Bear a hug!
I... I can't.
Falcon, what's wrong?
Is it puberty?
Is my baby boy becoming a man?
No! I'm living a lie!
I painted my tail to match yours.
[crying] I'm not really your son!
Oh, that.
You knew?!
Please, Maurice, I'm not a fool.
It's Mort!
I mean, come on, he could be my father.
I'm really not that much older.
The point is, I wanted to believe it.
I wanted a son. You know, Mort,
most of the time you're super annoying.
[chuckling]
But I gotta say,
you were the best fake son I never had.
[stammers] I'm so confused,
I don't even know what to feel right now.
Look! My egg survived!
See? I'm good with children!
Living proof! [cracking]
Like, actually living!
It's hatching!
Oh! He's actually kind of cute.
Yes, he is, the widdle cwocodile--
-Aah!
-[gasping]
Ow! Ow! Ow!
[laughs] Our kids
are playing together, Clover!
Some day when you're
somebody's mom, Mo-Mo,
you'll know the truth.
Parenting is the toughest job
you'll ever love.
[Mort exclaims]
[Mort] I'm okay.
I was only partially, ow, digested.
[pageant music playing]